# 24.6.0    {{Project}} sharing

> By default no information is shared between different {{project}}s. {{Project}} sharing allows you to do so if necessary. 

You will need to contact {{Lamplight}} to enable {{project}} sharing if you do require it, and obviously only applies if you have more than one {{project}}

{{Project}} sharing lets you control in very fine detail what information is shared between different {{project}}s. You can share profile information and {{work}}, {{outcome}}, {{referral}}, {{eval}} and {{comm}} records. This sharing is controlled by **policies** that determine which {{project}}s the information should be shared with, what information to share, and whether information can be editted. Your system administrator will need to set up policies for profile sharing and {{work}} etc. record sharing. For more information on setting up policies see section [24.6.1  {{Project}} sharing - setting up policies](/help/index/v/{{version}}/p/24.6.1). Once these policies are in place, you need to apply the policy to particular records - by default no information is shared until you explicitly choose to do so.

These policies specify:

  1. Which {{project}}s to share with
  2. The access level needed for other database operators to be able to view the shared record
  3. How much of the record to share (for example, just name but not contact details
  4. Whether operators in other {{project}}s may add to or edit the record, or just view it

For more information on sharing profiles, see section [24.6.2  {{Project}} sharing - sharing profiles](/help/index/v/{{version}}/p/24.6.2). For more on sharing {{work}} etc. records see section [24.6.3  {{Project}} sharing - sharing {{work}} etc. records](/help/index/v/{{version}}/p/24.6.3). 

###### {{core}} module

