# 16.11.0 Setting Up Email

> Before you can send emails from your Lamplight system, you will need to set up the connection to your existing email account



Lamplight sends emails through your own email servers. This means the sent items will show in your ‘Sent’ email folder, and replies will come to your inbox.  It also means that emails will show as genuinely from you, and are less likely to be marked as spam.

You will need to enter your details in System Administration to allow you to send emails. This is a one-off task. 

You can either
- Set-up each database operator to send emails from their own account.
- Set-up all operators to send email through a group email address.
If you will be using {{Lamplight}} to send out bulk emails, then a single email address may suit.  For other purposes, sending through individual account may be your preferred option.  You can choose some people to send with individual accounts, and others with a single account.

Because emails are sent through your own server, there are sometimes limits on how many emails you can send with some certain accounts.  You can check with your provider how this may affect you. If you need to, you can use MailChimp with Lamplight for sending out bulk email. You need the Communications Module for this. For more on Mailchimp and Lamplight, see [21.2.0 {{Comm}}s: Linking with Mailchimp](/help/index/p/21.2.0).

### Two Factor Authentication
Some email providers allow you to set-up 2-factor authentication.  If you use Office 365 or Gmail we have separate guides for this.  

If you are using 2-factor authentication, you’ll need to follow the help systems for your email provider, to generate what’s called an ‘App password’.  You’ll use this as the password for Lamplight.  

Two-factor authentication means entering a code in addition to your normal email address and password.  This code may be sent to you in a text message, or may be generated by an app on your phone.  You may not need to enter it every time you log in: you can set it to only require the code every 30 days.  

### Instructions for Different Providers

Email providers have different settings to each other. Find your supplier in the list below for instructions on how to set up your email account:

- [16.11.1 Setting up a Gmail Account](/help/index/p/16.11.1).
- [16.11.2 Setting up Gmail with Two Factor Authentication](/help/index/p/16.11.2).
- [16.11.3 Setting up Office 365](/help/index/p/16.11.3).
- [16.11.4 Setting up Office 365 with Two Factor Authentication](/help/index/p/16.11.4).
- [16.11.5 Setting up Outlook with Your Own Server (Not Office 365)](/help/index/p/16.11.5).
- [16.11.6 Setting up Email for Other Common Providers](/help/index/p/16.11.6).


##### Tags
System admin

###### core module
