# 51.4.1 Creating a {{Work}} Record

> How to set up a new work record from a person’s profile and add basic information to it

<iframe width="640" height="564" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/279240510" frameborder="0" allowFullScreen mozallowfullscreen webkitAllowFullScreen></iframe>

> Script

Hello, it’s Max from Lamplight. Welcome to {{Work}} Records, video one of four: Creating a {{Work}} Record.

{{Work}} records are the way to record the {{work}} you do. As with everything in Lamplight, they may be called something else in your system. If you click ‘{{Activity}} > add new’, you’ll see a list of {{activity}} types. The top one will be {{work}}, or whatever alternative it’s called in your system.

You can create a {{work}} record from the main menu, using ‘{{activity}} > add new > {{work}}’, but we’re going to create one through the profile of the {{person}} with whom we worked.

In their profile, click to select the ‘{{work}} records’ tab, and then click the ‘add’ button to the right. This pop-up window is where we will enter the details of the {{work}}. There might be many custom tabs and fields for recording different types of {{work}}, and we’ll use just the ones that are relevant.

These first three tabs are found in any system, and you’ll want to populate them every time. They are:
- When and where
- Attendance
- Details

Let’s look through them together.

#### When and Where
- **Date and time**
   Every piece of work has a start and end time, and these will be used to display {{work}} records in the home page diaries. They’ll also be important for reporting purposes.
   Select your start time, and the end time will automatically change. The default length of {{work}} records has been set by your system administrator, but you can still change the end time manually. Next, set the date. Unless your piece of work runs into the wee hours or includes an overnight stay, the ‘to’ and ‘from’ dates will be the same.
   It is possible to set {{work}} records to recur, and we’ll cover recurring records in the third video in this series.

- **{{Workarea}}s.**
   When you create a {{work}} record, you must select one {{workarea}}, and you might normally choose one or more {{subworkarea}}s too. These are essential as they categorise your {{work}} records so that you can easily sort through and report on them.

   Your {{workareas}} and how they’re designed to be used are specific to your system, and using them properly will be crucial for your reporting as well as day-to-day record-keeping. If you’re not sure which to use, speak with your system administrator.

- **Location.**
   As well as a {{workarea}}, you may select a location. These let you view activities by location in the diary, and allow reporting based on where things have happened. If you don’t have locations available, just continue.

- **Custom Fields.**
   Now, in any of the tabs there may be additional custom fields. I’ll show you some examples of these in a moment, but yours will be unique to your system. 
   
   Fill them in where they are relevant and seek the guidance of your system administrator if you need to.
   
When you’ve completed a tab, navigate to the next one either by clicking the tab name at the top, or clicking the ‘Next’ button in the bottom right corner. If you click ‘Next’ to move to a shorter tab, you may need to scroll up to see it.

#### Attendance Tab

Next is the attendance tab in which we’ll record everyone who attended including {{users}}, {{staff}}, {{volunteer}}s, and other professionals. This will allow us to look back and see who was involved, and to report on different {{people}}’s involvement. 
   
This record will appear in the ‘{{work}} records’ tab in the profile of anyone included in the attendance table, so you can see in each profile a list of everything they’ve been involved in.

- **Search**.
   If you created the {{work}} record from a particular profile, that {{person}} or {{org}} will already be listed in the table and, depending on your personal settings, you may be listed too. To add more names to the attendance table, use the search box at the top of the page. When the name you want appears in the search results, click it to add it to the table. 
   
Do the same for another {{user}} [Claudia Cregg], a {{contact}} [Darius Hawthorne], and perhaps another member of your {{staff}} [Gwen Cooper]. You can also include {{org}}s.
   
- **Attendance**
   You’ll now see their names in the table. The ‘Attendance type’ column displays whether or not they attended. Click within this column to view the list of options. These are specific to each system, but you’ll likely have a number of these, for example Attended, Did not attend, or Cancelled.

   Many systems use an attendance type such as ‘In reference to’, so that the {{work}} record will appear in that profile. For example, this could be used to record a meeting about a {{user}} where the {{user}} did not actually attend.

- **Role**.
   As well as an attendance type, every attendee has a role. This means that, for example, someone who both uses services and volunteers can attend in either capacity. Clicking in the ‘role’ column, will display the list of roles. Click the relevant role from the list.

- **Anonymous attendees**.
   The box below the attendance table is for recording anonymous attendees. If you didn’t take names at a session you can use this to record the number of {{people}} who were there. Be mindful that, if you use this feature, you will not be able to accurately report on the number of individuals attending across a number of {{work}} records, because you won’t know whether you’re double-counting those anonymous individuals.
   
#### Details

Next is the ‘Details’ tab.

- **Summary**.
   The text you enter in the ‘Summary’ field is what will appear in the diary, so make it succinct. Think of it as the subject line in an email.
   
   Placing the cursor in the field will usually reveal rich-text editing tools, which provide formatting options. To close these once you’ve finished, click the cross in the top, right-hand corner.

- **Description**.
   The ‘Description’ field is where to enter notes from the session. If you’re creating a record for an event in the future, you may want to leave it blank, to complete later.
   
- **Follow-up**
   The ‘Follow-up’ field is to record what needs to happen following the session. You may not need to use this.

#### Saving

At this point, you can save your {{work}} record by clicking the ‘Save’ button in the bottom, right-hand corner. If you’ve created the record from a profile, as I have, you’ll see it in the table in the ‘{{work}} records’ tab. We’ll look in more detail at this table later in this series.

I suggest you take a short while to practice what you’ve learned in your own system. In the next video, we’ll look at custom tabs and fields in {{work}} records. Thanks for watching.


##### No Manual

##### Tags
Video

###### core module
